---
weight: 4
title: "Starting out with the Ergodox EZ"
date: 2020-02-25
draft: false
author: "Gerrit"
tags: ["Keyboards", "Ergonomics"]
---

As a climber and a developer, my forearms see a fair bit of (over)use. I think
a split keyboard will help with this, as will real keys (and not the
short-press keys on knockoff Apple keyboards). Why test this out with a $300
keyboard? Because it's super cool! I don't have the time or space to build my
own, so the Ergodox seems like the best option.

I really like the idea of a split Kinesis-style keyboard [like
this](https://medium.com/@sachee/building-my-first-keyboard-and-you-can-too-512c0f8a4c5f),
but I think I'll take my productivity shakeups one at a time.

# Benchmarks

I took a [typing test](https://play.typeracer.com/) with my regular keyboard
the day my Ergodox showed up. I clocked 74 wpm; this seemed slow compared to other
tests I've taken, but we'll call it a fair benchmark.

On the Ergodox, I only got 34. This was a plain-English test; I suspect that a
test that included additional characters I would be nearly-helplessly slow.

To stay sane, I kept my regular keyboard between the Ergodox halves in case I
was in a hurry (or, as was often the case, that I had mis-configured a key that
I needed). The ability to hold a key to auto-Shift is pretty cool. Auto-shift
for numbers is immediately terrific, but it's unintuitive for letters at first,
particularly in vim-style contexts. I added the "Autoshift Toggle" button to my
keyboard to avoid making myself crazy.

The main struggle is that my daily workflow is i3, tmux, and vim; due to the
near-endless configurability of keymaps for each of these already, the Ergodox
actually _increases_ opportunity for confusion. In addition, I use IntelliJ for
Java, which has a whole other set of keybindings (that I don't know very well
to begin with).

After a few days of using the Ergodox, I had settled on a layout that I like
(at least for now). I still get lost periodically; in particular, there are a
few key combinations that seem logical on a regular keyboard that require some
mental gymnastics to figure out on the Ergodox. Each time I find one of these,
I try to move keys around and recompile the layout.
